README.md, before:

# README

This repository contains R scripts associated with the paper:

*A stochastic model for predicting age and mass at maturity of insects*

The main purpose of these scripts is allow users to solve the joint distribution of the stochastic model described in the paper.

## simulate-partA.R

This script contains code for simulating mass gain and development time during the critical weight period. In addition, it compare simulation results to solutions of probability mass function for number of feeding bouts ("pdfs/nbout").

## simulate-partB.R

This script contains code for simulating mass gain and development time during the cessation of growth period. It uses Gillespie's stochastic simulation algorithm to model the degradation of juvenile hormone. In addition, it compare simulated development times with those expected by the model.

## solve-sensitivity.R

This script contains code that solves (numerically) the joint density of age and mass at maturity at three different values of lambda_X (1, 2, 4). The script relies heavily on the probability functions in folder "pdfs".


## pdfs/

This folder contains all probability mass / density functions associated with the development model. Users interested in solving for the final joint density (i.e., maturation and growth in periods A and B together) will want to use function "jointAB", which relies on all other functions in this folder.

## simu/

This folder contains functions associated with simulating the development model. Function "gillespie_full" is the primary function. Users interested in simulating the development model when parameter values are nonhomogeneous should consider swapping the inter-event sampler "hpp.R" with its nonhomogeneous analog "nhpp" found in the [following repository](https://github.com/legault/SSAplus)

Commit message:

revised pdfs for model and simplified comparison script
This update includes revisions to the pdf based on revised assumptions
in the model. In particular, we now assume that the critical weight
period ends when the critical weight is reached. Further, we now use
the symbolic form of the derivative for the feeding pdf (see manuscript for details)

README.md, after:

# README

This repository contains R scripts associated with the paper:

*A stochastic model for predicting age and mass at maturity of insects*

The main purpose of these scripts is allow users to evaluate the joint distribution of the stochastic model described in the paper.

## simulate-evaluate.R

This script contains code for simulating mass gain and development time across both the critical weight period and cessation of growth period. For the cessation of growth period, JH degradation is simulated with GIllespie's stochastic algorithm (see folder /sim).

Following the simulations, there is code to evaluate the joint pdfs for age and mass at maturity.

Finally, contour plots are used to compare simulations with evaluations.

## pdfs/

This folder contains all probability mass / density functions associated with the development model. Users interested in solving for the final joint density (i.e., maturation and growth in periods A and B together) will want to use function "jointAB", which relies on all other functions in this folder.

## sim/

This folder contains functions associated with simulating the development model. Function "gillespie_full" is the primary function. Users interested in simulating the development model when parameter values are nonhomogeneous should consider swapping the inter-event sampler "hpp.R" with its nonhomogeneous analog "nhpp" found in the [following repository](https://github.com/legault/SSAplus)
